do not boast about tomorrow for you do
not know what a day may bring forth let
another man praise you and not your own
mouth a stranger and not your own lips a
stone is heavy and sand is weighty but a
fools wrath is heavier than both of them
wrath is cruel and anger a torrent but
who is able to stand before jealousy
open rebuke is better than love
carefully concealed faithful are the
wounds of a friend but the kisses of an
enemy are deceitful a satisfied soul
loathes the honeycomb but to a hungry
soul every bitter thing is sweet like a
bird that wanders from its nest is a man
who wanders from his place pointment and
perfume delight the heart and the
sweetness of a man's friend gives the
light by hearty counsel do not forsake
your own friend or your father's friend
nor go to your brother's house in the
day of your calamity better is a
neighbor nearby than a brother far away
my son be wise and make my heart plant
that I may answer him who reproaches me
a prudent man foresees evil and hides
himself the simple pass on and are
punished
take the garment of him who is surety
for a stranger and hold it in pledge
when he is surety for a seductress he
who blesses his friend with a loud voice
rising early in the morning it will be
counted occurs to him a continual
dripping on a very rainy day and a
contentious woman are alike
whoever restrains her restrains the wind
and grasps oil with his right hand as
iron sharpens iron so a man sharpens the
countenance of his friend whoever keeps
the fig tree will eat its fruit so he
who waits on his master will be honored
as in water face reflects face so a
man's heart reveals the man hell and
destruction are never full so the eyes
of man are never satisfied the refining
part is for silver and the furnace for
gold and a man is valued by what others
say of him
though you grind a fool in a mortar with
a pestle along with crushed grain
yes his foolishness will not depart from
you
be diligent to know the state of your
flocks and attend to your herds for
riches are not forever nor does a crown
endure to all generations when the hay
is removed and the tender grass shows
itself and the herbs of the mountains
are gathered in the lands will provide
your clothing and the goats the price of
a field you shall have enough goat's
milk for your food for the food of your
household and the nourishment of your
maidservants
[Music]